# DNS 101

* **DNS** - Convert Human Friendly domain names into IP addresses
* IP4 \(32 bit\), IP6 \(128 bits\) - created to address exhaustion of IP addresses in IP4 space
* VPCs are now IP6 compatible
* Top level domains vs second level domains
* **Domain Registrars** - assign domain names under one or more top level domain names

### **Types of DNS Records**

**NS Records -** NS stands for Name Server records and are used by Top Level Domain servers to direct traffic to the Content DNS server which contains the authoritative DNS records. What essentially happens is when you create a zone in Route53, you are going to given a lot of different NS records, you then have to take these records to your domain registrar, so using GoDaddy for example, you will go into the GoDaddy console, but essentially what you do is you take those records and you supply your domain registrar with these NS records and then in that way traffic will be directed over to Route53. Now recently, Amazon has become a domain registrar and it makes it a lot easier for you because previously you'd have to go through and use ike GoDaddy registered domain name and then basically you would have to go to create the zone in Route53, get all the NS records then update GoDaddy with DNS records in order to get this to work. But now it's all integrated into the AWS console. We can just use AWS as our domain registrar.

**A records -** An "A" record is the fundamental type of DNS record and the "A" in A record stands for "Address". The A record is used by a computer to translate the name of the domain to the IP address. It is important to understand that an Elastic Load Balancer **never **has a IP address, ELB always just have a DNS name. So you could not use A record to resolve to an ELB. What we actually use is Alias record.

**CNAMES -** A Canonical Name \(CName\) can be used to resolve one domain name to another. For example, you may have a mobile website with the domain name "[http://m.acloud.guru](http://m.acloud.guru/)" that is used for when users browse to your domain name on their mobile devices. You may also want the name "[http://mobile.acloud.guru](http://mobile.acloud.guru/)" to resolve to this same address.

**Alias Records -** This term is created by Amazon, so only be used in AWS and Route53. Alias records are used to map resource record sets in your hosted zone to Elastic Load Balancer, CloudFront distribution, or S3 buckets that are configured as websites. Alias records work like a CNAME record in that you can map one DNS name to another target DNS name. Key difference - A CNAME cannot be used for naked domain names \(zone apex record, i.e. the naked domain name means the domain name without any prefix such as www\). Your naked domain name must be an A record. You cannot have a CNAME for naked domain names \(like "[http://acloud.guru](http://acloud.guru%29%29%29%29%20/)"\), it must be either an A record or an Alias. Alias record sets are supported only for DNS record types A and AAAA. Alias record automatically map your naked domain name or use zone apex domain name to an ELB and that's where it's most commonly used \(i.e. Alias Target is the domain name of your ELB\). Alias resource record sets can save you time because Amazon Route53 automatically recognizes changes in the record sets that the alias resource record set refers to. It's just an easy way of mapping your naked domain name to an ELB, and this is most commonly used in production.

**MX Records \(Mail Exchanger Record\) -** Route53 also support MX Records.

**AAAA Record** – Ipv6

**TTL - **The length that a DNS record is cached on either the Resolving Server or the users own local PC is equal to the value of the "Time To Live" in seconds. The lower the time to live, the faster changes to DNS records take to propagate throughout the Internet. When you do a DNS migration, set the TTL to a lower value, say 300 seconds, so that the request will not be sent to old sites.

### **Hosted Zone**

Collection of resource record sets. NS, SOA, CNAME, Alias etc. types of records for a particular domain. e.g. [https://www.tcpiputils.com/dns-lookup/google.com/ALL](https://www.tcpiputils.com/dns-lookup/google.com/ALL)



